---
layout: post 
title: Handwriting Part 2
tags: [] 
status: publish 
type: post 
excerpt: In my previous post, I talked about the importance of handwritten communication and the dire state of many peoples handwriting. Here, I want to try and present the method I have used to try and improve my writing.
published: true 
--- 

So, in my previous [post][1] I talked about the importance of handwritten
communication and the dire state of many peoples handwriting. Here, I want to
try and present the method I have used to try and improve my writing. The
"method" is a very old handwriting instruction manual - [The Palmer Method of
Business Writing][2], published in 1935 by A.N Palmer. While being a very
stuffy tome, written in a stern style, it provides a complete system of writing
not only neatly, but with speed. 

The speed benefits are of as much importance to me as the style of the writing.
When taking exams, as I do at least once a year, it is a huge benefit to be
able to write accurately and rapidly. The strict instructions provided by
Palmer's method provide a framework for steady practise. The text is divided
into a number of "Lessons", all subdivided into a number or "Drills" - simple
exercises to copy in order to achieve a specific goal.. I have been following
the lessons for around 4 weeks now and am seeing a definite improvement in my
writing. 

Originally, the key to the success of the Palmer method was the emphasis placed
on rapid, legible writing. This is still important today, but I think another
feature makes the method suitable for those who spend disproportionate amounts
of time on the computer. It is commonly stated that geeks have a love of detail
and organisation, this is clearly shown by the fanatical GTD following and the
number of web-apps, desktop apps and mobile apps that have been created to
facilitate it's practise. 

The way that Palmer presents his instructions goes into the most minute detail,
everything is explained simply and mechanically, but with such precision. For
example, the angle at which you face your writing surface, and the angle of the
paper relative to you is covered by a whole page, containing diagrams of angles
and clear instruction.

What is most surprising about these seemingly superfluous instructions, is that
they actually make a big difference. The best way to explain this is to liken
handwriting to a golf swing. A successful swing requires a number of elements:
grip, address, takeaway, backswing, line of contact and follow through. Each
element seems trivial, and it is only in combination that they provide the
power needed to hit the golf ball 250 yards. However, by altering just one of
these things, your swing can become a disaster. Applying this idea to writing,
the elements become things like how you hold the pen, or the angle of the paper
in relation to yourself. It is unsurprising to see that each of these elements
do in fact make a big difference in the quality of writing. People have
forgotten why everyone used to have a writing desk - it was to provide the
correct environment to produce handwritten work of a high physical standard. 

I'll end this post with what I think is the most effective instruction given in
the manual - when creating straight lines that are drawn towards you, they
should be drawn in a straight line toward the middle of your body. This is
where your seating position and the angle of the paper come in to play,
providing the perfect environment for you to write. When you write like this,
you rediscover something that has been lost from writing, it begins to feel
more like an art form than a means to an end.

 [1]: http://www.davidbeckingsale.com/blog/handwriting
 [2]: http://http://www.iampeth.com/books/palmer_method_1935/palmerMethod_1935_index.php
