---
layout: post
title: Snowballing Passion
status: publish
type: post
---

Ideas, and more specifically capturing ideas, is something that I struggle
with. I don't know if it's because I'm worried that I don't know where to put
them, but I always seem to feel a sense of dread when I have an idea. It makes
its way into my inbox, and then I'm paralysed. Admitting that this idea can be
realised. Picking a next action. The correlation between concrete steps and
seeing the idea birthed. It can be too much. So it sits there for a while, only
to become a half-baked "look into" type task.

That's not how things get done. While projects are driven by next actions,
you'll never bring down a monster if you spend all day swatting flies. Projects
are driven by passion - whether you know it or not. If you are passionate about
a project then it will get done. I don't mean passion as in something all
consuming and highly romanticised. It can be short-lived. A fleeting five
minutes spent engrossed in a Wikipedia article. Often, it turns into an hour or
more solving some problem that cropped up whilst you were working.  This kind
of passion, and the relentless need to get some _specific_ thing done, can
often snowball.

As I sat down and reworked this site for the third time in two years, I was
turning to the project after letting it sit dormant for a few months.
Originally, I wanted to create some kind of dynamic landing page, a big advert
for everything I do online. I have no idea why I was pretending that's what I
wanted my website to be. I just want somewhere to write. If I'm recognised on
the Internet, I want it to be for my writing.

The rework turned out better than expected, and ended up being completed far
sooner than I anticipated. Once I thought about why I wanted to change the
aesthetics of my site, I realised it was not the aesthetics that I wanted to
change. It was the purpose. This clarity drove me towards cleaning up the
design, giving myself permission to change without the baggage of the old posts
I would rather forget.

Discovering this purpose turned the project into a passion. Other things were
left by the wayside as I pressed ahead with getting this finished. I'm glad I
did. Finishing something big is better than finishing one hundred tiny things.

Let your passion snowball, driving you to complete bigger projects in great
leaps, not tiny steps.
